# PROJECT BIRDNEST

My solution to Reaktor's [pre-assignment](https://assignments.reaktor.com/birdnest/) for 2023 Developer Trainee.

Web application deployed to internet with Render. [Link to the application](https://birdnest-2rwh.onrender.com/)

## Design

A combo of two npm projects, the backend server and the frontend client.
There are two `package.json` configs and thereforce two places to run `npm` commands:

1. [**Node server**](server/): [`server/package.json`](server/package.json)
2. [**React UI**](client/): [`client/package.json`](client/package.json)
    - generated by [create-react-app](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app)
    - deployed via `build` script in the Node server's [`server/package.json`](server/package.json)

## Features

This web application lists all the pilots who recently violated the NDZ (no drone zone) perimeter.
Node backend fetches and parses the XML drone data from Reaktor's API and persist the pilot information for 10 minutes since their drone was last seen by the equipment. Server also keeps track of each pilots closest distance to the nest.

React frontend shows a list of all the pilots who have violated the NDZ within the last 10 minutes. It also highlights the pilots currently violating the NDZ by highlihgting them red. Frontend gets the data from the backend with Axios using GET request.

## Built with

-   Node
-   Express
-   node-xml2js
-   node-fetch
-   React
-   Axios

## Local Development

### Run the API server

In a terminal:

```bash
# Change directory
cd server/
# Initial setup
npm install
# Start the server
npm start
```

### Run the React UI

The React app is configured to proxy backend requests to the local Node server. (See [`"proxy"` config](client/package.json))

In a separate terminal from the API server, start the UI:

```bash
# Change directory
cd client/
# Initial setup
npm install
# Start the server
npm start
```
